backend/README.md, before:

[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/Artenes/rocketseat-bootcamp-meetapp/tree/master/backend">
    <img src="https://i.imgur.com/GiiNYKp.jpg" alt="Logo" width="90" height="80">
  </a>

  <h3 align="center">Meetapp (backend)</h3>

  <p align="center">
    Create and organize meetups about programing!
    <br />
  </p>
</p>

## Table of Contents

* [About the Project](#about-the-project)
  * [Built With](#built-with)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)
* [Contact](#contact)

## About The Project

REST API to help create, manage and list meetups about programming. This is not a flesh out product ot be used in production, it is just a demo application created during [Rocketseat's GoStack bootamp](https://rocketseat.com.br/bootcamp).

### Built With

* [Node js](https://nodejs.org)
* [Express](https://expressjs.com)
* [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/)

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these steps.

### Prerequisites

* Node js
* npm
* yarn
* Postgres database (recomend using a docker image for that)

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
```sh
git clone https://github.com/Artenes/rocketseat-bootcamp-meetapp
```

2. Access the `backend` directory
```sh
cd rocketseat-bootcamp-meetapp/backend
```

3. Install dependencies
```sh
yarn
```

4. Create a copy of the .env.example file
```sh
cp .env.example .env
```

5. Configure the .env file

6. Have a postegres database running and then run the migrations to create the tables
```sh
yarn sequelize db:migrate
```

7. Run the server
```sh
yarn dev
```

## Usage

In the root folder there is a file called `meetapp-insomnia.json` that can be imported into [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/). There there will be tests with sample requests for each available route.

There are protected and unprotected routes. To access a protected route, you need a `JWT` token in the header of the requeast as such:

```sh
Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NSwiaWF0IjoxNTY3OTUwMTM2LCJleHAiOjE1Njg1NTQ5MzZ9.JPHK7jwgSgvdVABon2HxtJT6ddofu6EWW53az6qF-0M
```
For that you have to create a user in the `POST /users` endpoint, then create a session in `POST /sessions` endpoint. See endpoints descriptions below for more details.

### Users

A user that can create meetups and take part on them.

#### POST /users

Creates a new user.

Body
```json
{
  "name": "Jhon",
  "email": "jhon@doe.com",
  "password": "123456"
}
```

#### PUT /users [protected]

Edits the current logged in user.

Body
```json
{
  "name": "New Jhon",
  "email": "newjhon@doe.com",
  "oldPassword": "123456",
  "password": "1234567",
  "confirmPassword": "1234567"
}
```

### Sessions

A session to access protected routes in the API.

#### POST /sessions

Creates a new `JWT` token for a user.

Body
```json
{
  "email": "jhon@doe.com",
  "password": "123456"
}
```

### Files

An image used by another resource. Files must be uploaded separately from the requests that need them.

#### POST /files

Uploads a new file.

Body - Multipart Form
```json
file: file/path
```

#### Meetups

A meetup of users.

#### GET /events

Lists all meetups in the application for guests to browse.

#### POST /meetups [protected]

Creates a new meetup with the logged user as the organizer.

Body
```json
{
  "title": "A meetup",
  "description": "Some random meetup",
  "localization": "New York",
  "date": "2019-10-20T15:00:00-04:00",
  "image_id": 1
}
```

#### PUT /meetups/:id [protected]

Edits the details with a meetup that belongs to the user with the given id.

Body
```json
{
  "title": "A new meetup",
  "description": "Some new random meetup",
  "localization": "New New York",
  "date": "2019-11-20T15:00:00-04:00",
  "image_id": 2
}
```

#### GET /meetups [protected]

Lists all meetups created by the logged user.

#### DELETE /meetups/:id [protected]

Cancels (hard delete) a meetup that belongs to the user with the given id.

### Registrations

Is when a user register to attend to a meetup created by another user.

#### POST /registrations [protected]

Creates a new registration in a meetup.

Body
```json
{
  "meetup_id": 1
}
```

#### GET /registrations [protected]

Lists all registration of the logged user.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, even though this was made only for learning purposes.

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Contact

Artenes Nogueira - [artenes.nogueira@gmail.com](mailto:artenes.nogueira@gmail.com)

My blog: [http://artenesbok.com/](http://artenesbok.com/)

My Linkedin: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/artenes/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/artenes/)

README template from: [https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template)

[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=flat-square
[issues-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=flat-square
[license-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=flat-square&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/artenes/

Commit message:

[backend] Adds more details to README and .env.example
This might make things a little more clear.

backend/README.md, after:

[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/Artenes/rocketseat-bootcamp-meetapp/tree/master/backend">
    <img src="https://i.imgur.com/GiiNYKp.jpg" alt="Logo" width="90" height="80">
  </a>

  <h3 align="center">Meetapp (backend)</h3>

  <p align="center">
    Create and organize meetups about programing!
    <br />
  </p>
</p>

## Table of Contents

* [About the Project](#about-the-project)
  * [Built With](#built-with)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)
* [Contact](#contact)

## About The Project

REST API to help create, manage and list meetups about programming. This is not a flesh out product to be used in production, it is just a demo application created during [Rocketseat's GoStack bootamp](https://rocketseat.com.br/bootcamp).

### Built With

* [Node js](https://nodejs.org)
* [Express](https://expressjs.com)
* [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/)

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these steps.

### Prerequisites

* Node js
* npm
* yarn
* Postgres database (recomend using a docker image for that)
* Mailing service (for tests check [mailtrap.io](https://mailtrap.io))

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
```sh
git clone https://github.com/Artenes/rocketseat-bootcamp-meetapp
```

2. Access the `backend` directory
```sh
cd rocketseat-bootcamp-meetapp/backend
```

3. Install dependencies
```sh
yarn
```

4. Create a copy of the .env.example file
```sh
cp .env.example .env
```

5. Configure the .env file (make sure to have your database running and an mailing service credentials at hand).

6. Run the migrations to create the tables. Make sure the database you set in .env exists.
```sh
yarn sequelize db:migrate
```

7. Run the server
```sh
yarn dev
```

## Usage

In the root folder there is a file called `meetapp-insomnia.json` that can be imported into [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/). There there will be tests with sample requests for each available route.

There are protected and unprotected routes. To access a protected route, you need a `JWT` token in the header of the requeast as such:

```sh
Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NSwiaWF0IjoxNTY3OTUwMTM2LCJleHAiOjE1Njg1NTQ5MzZ9.JPHK7jwgSgvdVABon2HxtJT6ddofu6EWW53az6qF-0M
```
For that you have to create a user in the `POST /users` endpoint, then create a session in `POST /sessions` endpoint. See endpoints descriptions below for more details.

### Users

A user that can create meetups and take part on them.

#### POST /users

Creates a new user.

Body
```json
{
  "name": "Jhon",
  "email": "jhon@doe.com",
  "password": "123456"
}
```

#### PUT /users [protected]

Edits the current logged in user.

Body
```json
{
  "name": "New Jhon",
  "email": "newjhon@doe.com",
  "oldPassword": "123456",
  "password": "1234567",
  "confirmPassword": "1234567"
}
```

### Sessions

A session to access protected routes in the API.

#### POST /sessions

Creates a new `JWT` token for a user.

Body
```json
{
  "email": "jhon@doe.com",
  "password": "123456"
}
```

### Files

An image used by another resource. Files must be uploaded separately from the requests that need them.

#### POST /files

Uploads a new file.

Body - Multipart Form
```json
file: file/path
```

#### Meetups

A meetup of users.

#### GET /events

Lists all meetups in the application for guests to browse.

#### POST /meetups [protected]

Creates a new meetup with the logged user as the organizer.

Body
```json
{
  "title": "A meetup",
  "description": "Some random meetup",
  "localization": "New York",
  "date": "2019-10-20T15:00:00-04:00",
  "image_id": 1
}
```

#### PUT /meetups/:id [protected]

Edits the details with a meetup that belongs to the user with the given id.

Body
```json
{
  "title": "A new meetup",
  "description": "Some new random meetup",
  "localization": "New New York",
  "date": "2019-11-20T15:00:00-04:00",
  "image_id": 2
}
```

#### GET /meetups [protected]

Lists all meetups created by the logged user.

#### DELETE /meetups/:id [protected]

Cancels (hard delete) a meetup that belongs to the user with the given id.

### Registrations

Is when a user register to attend to a meetup created by another user.

#### POST /registrations [protected]

Creates a new registration in a meetup.

Body
```json
{
  "meetup_id": 1
}
```

#### GET /registrations [protected]

Lists all registration of the logged user.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, even though this was made only for learning purposes.

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Contact

Artenes Nogueira - [artenes.nogueira@gmail.com](mailto:artenes.nogueira@gmail.com)

My blog: [http://artenesbok.com/](http://artenesbok.com/)

My Linkedin: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/artenes/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/artenes/)

README template from: [https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template)

[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=flat-square
[issues-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=flat-square
[license-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=flat-square&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/artenes/
